—
PRODUCT NOTE
NXR series – Rib cooled induction motors
Configured to order motors for different applications
ABB’s latest generation of rib
cooled motors, type NXR, offer high
power density, easy configurability
and built-in serviceability. It is the
best solution to meet different
applications for power, water and
other industries. IEC and NEMA
standards are met with dedicated
— —
01 02 product lines.
— NXR is designed for both direct-online (DOL) and Easy to buy
01 NXR EN (IEC) motor
variable speed drive (VSD) operation. The entire order-to-delivery process has been
—
02 NXR US (NEMA) motor streamlined by providing easy-to-use online tools:
The latest generation of multipurpose rib cooled MachSize and DocStage.
motors offers high power density, easy configurability
and built-in serviceability. They incorporate experience Using the MachSize tool, qualified customers and
ABB has gained over more than 130 years of partners can select a number of pre-engineered
manufacturing electric motors. option packages that have been developed around
the needs of specific industries. If you want to
Configured to order (CTO) motors try it, please contact ABB.
NXR EN (IEC) motors are targeted at applications
where a highly customized motor is not needed in DocStage is a web-based system for sharing
global. With their standardized designs and short and managing documentation, which gives
lead times, the NXR IEC standard pre-engineered customers direct access to documentation for
motors meet most common needs across a wide their motors.
range of industries.
Modified to order (MTO) motors Common key features and benefits
NXR US (NEMA) motors for the North America • Rigid, weight-optimized frame is engineered
market are available from a North America stocking to minimize vibration
location with standard features to allow for • Fixing points make accessory fitting
modified-to-order capability at competitive lead straightforward
times. ABB’s modified-to-order capability enables • Flexible repositioning of main terminal box
you to add the modifications to meet your on site by ABB service personnel
application needs. • Built-in serviceability features reduce downtime
and cost of not running
High power density for compact installations • Optimized ABB motor and VSD packages are
The new motors set a benchmark for the industry, easy to install and operate
offering more watts per kilogram than has ever • 3D models available on request
been achieved before with rib cooled motors. • ABB Ability™ Smart Sensor is available
High power density means that for a given output as an option
you can often use a motor one frame size smaller • Performance data, drawings and other
than with conventional products. This helps to save information is readily available
space and enables more compact installations.
2202-20
NE
I
VER
221601KKA9
Easy to purchase Reliability Fast and Economical
• Fast quotation with MachSize • Based on ABB and Baldor-Reliance • Short lead time
online configurator long experience • Cost effective
• Fit for purpose • ABB Ability™ Smart Sensor equipped solution
• Extensive global service network
High efficiency Easy to install
• It ensures reduced cost of running, • Smaller frame size and less weight
less energy consumption • Designed to enable great flexibility
NXR EN (IEC) key features and benefits NXR US (NEMA) key features and benefits
• Versions with VSD operation which optimizes the motor’s • True NEMA mounting in 5000 and 5800 frames for
performance, minimizes energy consumption and drop in replacement
control your process more accurately • One motor type with many possibilities. Product is available
• Interchangeable terminal boxes reduce need for for DOL, or VFD, so no need to change between product lines,
spare motors you can utilize the same product, we design it for you.
• Cable tray for auxiliary wiring ensures clear cable routing, • NXR is the general-purpose version for Class I and II
which keeps the airflow free and ribs easy to clean Division 2 T-code area
• Optional ingress protection level available up to IP66 • Thanks to the long experience of over 130 years
manufacturing and applying motors, we provide our
customers with safe, reliable and efficient solutions to
many key applications in industries.
NXR EN – Main specifications NXR US – Main specifications
Output power 100 to 1800 kW Output power 250 Hp - 1000 Hp
Frame size 315 to 500 Frame size 5000, 5800
Number of poles 2 to 12 Number of poles 2 to 6
Voltages Up to 11.5 kV Voltages 460, 2300/4000, 4160
Frequency 50/60 Hz, VSD Frequency 60 Hz (50 Hz re-ratable)
Standard duty S1 Standard duty DOL - 1.15 VFD - 1.00
Insulation class F Insulation class F
Cooling IC411, IC416 Cooling TEFC (IC411), TEBC (IC416)
Protection IP55 (optionally IP56, IP65 and IP66) Protection IP54 (option IP55)
Enclosure material Cast iron Enclosure material Cast iron
Bearings Antifriction/Sleeve (NXR 500 2-pole) Bearings Ball and roller (convertible)
Mounting Horizontal or Vertical Mounting Horizontal or wall-mount
Standards IEC (electrically NEMA feature available) Standards NEMA MG-1 part 20 and IEEE 112
— —
For more information please visit: We reserve the right to make technical changes or We reserve all rights in this document and in the
new.abb.com/motors-generators modify the contents of this document without prior subject matter and illustrations contained therein.
notice. With regard to purchase orders, the agreed Any reproduction, disclosure to third parties or utilization
particulars shall prevail. ABB AG does not accept any of its contents – in whole or in parts – is forbidden
responsibility whatsoever for potential errors or without prior written consent of ABB AG.
possible lack of information in this document. Copyright© 2021 ABB. All rights reserved.