—
PRODUCT NOTE
High voltage flameproof motors
Performance, reliability and safety
ABB’s high voltage flameproof
motors are designed for reliable
operation in the toughest
conditions. They provide
compliance with international
standards and oil & gas industry
requirements, and deliver great
performance, reliability and safety
for applications in hazardous areas.
—
01
— Safe choice ABB rib cooled flameproof motors offer the benefits
01 Rib cooled flameproof
ABB high voltage flameproof motors are designed of very high power density and efficiency, increased
motor, type AMD R
to withstand the pressure caused by an internal reliability and easier maintenance. These
explosion without incurring any damage. They advantages ensure a lower cost of ownership. In
prevent the propagation of flames outside of the fact, the motors have set a new benchmark, offering
enclosure, and they are certified for gas groups IIB more watts per kilogram than has ever been
and IIC. achieved before with rib cooled motors.
ABB flameproof motors are a safe choice for High power density means that for a given output
applications in potentially explosive atmospheres. you can often use a motor one frame size smaller
They meet all relevant international standards, such than with similar products. This helps to save space
as EN and ATEX Directive, as well as the most and enables more compact installations.
important specification requirements for the oil and
gas industry. ABB’s extensive experience as a motor The tube cooled motors are cooled using cooling
manufacturer – which spans more than 140 years – tubes, which allows for a compact size while
ensures the motors will operate reliably in harsh optimizing motor performance. They offer the
environments with hazards like extreme benefits of high reliability, easy maintenance and
temperatures, corrosive dust and humidity. lower operational costs while maximizing
application productivity and efficiency.
High productivity and reliability
The high voltage flameproof motors are available in Versions are available for both direct-on-line (DOL)
two versions rib cooled motors up to frame size 500, and variable speed drive (VSD) operation. Certified
and tube cooled motors for higher power ratings. ABB motor-drive packages, with optimized thermal
behavior, reliability, efficiency and power range,
offer even higher productivity and energy efficiency.
4202-01
C
VER
NE
390901-7102KKA9
—
02 Tube cooled
flameproof motor,
type AMD T
—
02
Key benefits
—
Main specifications Safe choice
• Design meets all relevant standards
Rib cooled motors, type AMD R
and specification requirements in
Output power 100 to 1,600 kW
hazardous environments
Frame size 355 to 500
Number of poles 2 to 18
High power density
Voltages Up to 11 kV
• Compact size with more watts per
Frequency 50/60 Hz, VSD
kilogram
Cooling IC411, IC416
-20° to 40°C (as option down
High reliability
Ambient temperature to -55°C and up to 60°C)
• Increased uptime and productivity
Protection IP55 (as option up to IP66)
Enclosure material Cast iron
Easy to maintain
Bearings Antifriction or sleeve
• ABB’s predefined maintenance
Mounting Horizontal or vertical
programs ensure operational safety
Ex protection types: Ex db, Ex db eb, Ex tb, Ex db I Mb
and reliability
Gas/Dust group I , IIB, IIC
Temperature class T3, T4, T5 Your reliable partner
Standards IEC, EN, NEMA electical ABB motors are based on reliable designs, proven in
thousands of installations, and provide high produc-
Tube cooled motors, type AMD T
tivity in demanding conditions. With ABB you always
Output power 700 to 7,500 kW
have a partner to discuss different motor solutions
Frame size 500 to 900
to optimize your process. Our services do not stop
Number of poles 2 to 12
at sales. We make it easy for you to reach us at every
Voltages Up to 11 kV
stage of your motor’s life cycle.
Frequency 50/60 Hz, VSD
Cooling IC511, IC516
ABB’s extensive global network ensures local service
-20° to 40°C (as option down
delivery whenever and wherever you need it. We of-
Ambient temperature to -50°C and up to 60°C)
fer predefined maintenance programs for all life-
Protection IP55
time phases of all ABB motors, and preventive diag-
Enclosure material Welded steel
nosis and updates can help to further boost your
Bearings Antifriction or sleeve
competitiveness when needed.
Mounting Horizontal or vertical
Gas/Dust group IIB, IIC*, IIB+H2**
Preventive maintenance helps keep production run-
Temperature Class T3, T4
ning and optimize costs. ABB’s certified engineers
Ex protection types Ex db, Ex db eb
for hazardous area motors ensure that all the rele-
Standards IEC, EN, NEMA electrical
vant international regulations and requirements for
* IIC frame available for AMD T 500 only
relevant standards are met.
** IIB + H2 available for AMD T 710 only
— —
For more information please visit: We reserve the right to make technical changes or We reserve all rights in this document and in the
abb.com/motors&generators modify the contents of this document without prior subject matter and illustrations contained therein.
notice. With regard to purchase orders, the agreed Any reproduction, disclosure to third parties or utilization
particulars shall prevail. ABB AG does not accept any of its contents – in whole or in parts – is forbidden
responsibility whatsoever for potential errors or without prior written consent of ABB AG.
possible lack of information in this document. Copyright© 2024 ABB. All rights reserved.