—
PRODUCT NOTE
High voltage modular induction motors
High efficiency, reliability and availability
ABB high voltage modular
induction motors are tailored for an
exact match with their application.
They boost reliability, productivity
and energy efficiency across a wide
range of industries.
—
01
— ABB high voltage modular induction motors are High efficiency saves energy and cuts costs
01 ABB’s high voltage
fine-tuned to the customer’s precise needs and As the world seeks ways to achieve its net zero
modular induction
motor, type AMI offer a high degree of flexibility. ambitions, energy efficiency and circularity have
critical roles to play.
They are engineered to provide reliability and
availability in the toughest and most demanding High efficiency modular induction motors enable
conditions, and they can be used in all industry industries to lower their environmental impact and
segments and applications. reduce the total cost of ownership. They can provide
energy savings totaling up to 1.1 GWh over a 20-year
Key benefits lifetime.
High efficiency
Using less energy to produce the same output
• High efficiency motors help save
means lower CO2 emissions and shorter payback
energy and cut costs
times. The payback time can be as low as six months
(based on an energy price of EUR 0.40/kWh).
Designed for most demanding
applications
At ABB we take our responsibilities seriously, with a
• Meets demanding application needs
strong focus on sustainability. Carbon neutrality is
prioritized in our manufacturing operations.
Efficient cooling
• Modular cooling options to meet all
customer requirements
High productivity
• Reliable proven design and
productivity from countless
installations
— —
For more information please visit: We reserve the right to make technical changes or We reserve all rights in this document and in the
abb.com/motors&generators modify the contents of this document without prior subject matter and illustrations contained therein.
notice. With regard to purchase orders, the agreed Any reproduction, disclosure to third parties or utilization
particulars shall prevail. ABB AG does not accept any of its contents – in whole or in parts – is forbidden
responsibility whatsoever for potential errors or without prior written consent of ABB AG.
possible lack of information in this document. Copyright© 2024 ABB. All rights reserved.
4202-80
C
.VER
NE
315501KKA9
—
02 High voltage modular Technical specifications
induction motors are Output power: Up to 23 MW
tailor-made to meet the
needs of each customer Frame sizes: 400 to 1000
and each application. Number of poles: 2 to 24
Voltages: Up to 13.8 kV
Frequency: 50 or 60 Hz, or VSD
Ambient: -50 °C to +60 °C
Cooling: Air-to-air, air-to-water, weather-
protected open ventilated system
Protection: IP23, IPW24, IP55, IP56
Enclosure material: Welded steel
Bearings: Antifriction or sleeve
Mounting: Horizontal or vertical
Standards: IEC, NEMA
Supply: Variable speed drive (VSD),
— direct-on-line (DOL)
02
Designed for most demanding applications High productivity
ABB modular induction motors are tailor-made for ABB motors are based on reliable designs, proven in
their specific application. They are built on the most thousands of installations, and provide high
successful modular platform for electric motors. productivity in demanding conditions. We use our
They not only meet demanding application extensive experience and segment knowledge to
requirements but also have the flexibility to allow determine what type of motor will perform best in
adaptation for highly specialized configurations. each application.
The motors are typically used to drive blowers, fans, The modular induction motors’ proven core
compressors, pumps, conveyors, hoists, mixers and technology, materials, manufacturing methods and
thrusters. They are found in industries like power low vibration ensure great reliability. Each motor is
generation, air separation, oil and gas, chemicals, thoroughly tested before it leaves the factory.
metals, marine, mining, and pulp and paper.
Your reliable partner
ABB modular induction motors comply with all With ABB you always have a partner to discuss
relevant international standards. Versions are different motor solutions to optimize your process.
available for both direct-on-line (DOL) and variable Our services do not stop at sales. We make it easy
speed drive (VSD) operation. for you to reach us at every stage of your motor’s life
cycle.
Efficient cooling for peak performance
Efficient cooling is vital for peak motor performance The extensive ABB global network ensures local
in all ambient operating conditions. The optimal service delivery whenever and wherever you need it.
cooling option is chosen from three basic modules: Our worldwide network includes over 60 service
• air-to-air heat exchanger centers and more than 150 authorized service
• air-to-water heat exchanger providers.
• weather-protected open ventilated system
We offer predefined maintenance programs for all
The selected cooling module is mounted on top of lifetime phases of all ABB motors, and preventive
the frame, ensuring that customer requirements diagnosis and updates can help further boost your
regarding the cooling method and environmental competitiveness when needed.
protection can be met in every case.
—
Learn more from the
ABB High voltage modular induction motors page.